README.md, before:

Pi Garage Alert
===============

Raspberry Pi Python script to email, tweet, or send an SMS if a garage door is left open.

![Screenshot of garage door SMS alert](http://www.richlynch.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/garage_door_sms.png)

Quick Start
---------------

Here is a heavily condensed quick start guide. New users are strongly encouraged to read the full documentation at http://www.richlynch.com/code/pi_garage_alert.

1. Equipment required
  1. Raspberry Pi model A or B
	1. 2GB or larger SD card for the RPi filesystem
	1. Magnetic sensor (e.g. http://www.smarthome.com/7455/Seco-Larm-SM-226L-Garage-Door-Contacts-for-Closed-Circuits/p.aspx)
	1. USB wifi adapter (if not using Ethernet)
	1. USB power supply for RPi
	1. 2 channel relay
1. Connect one wire of the magnetic sensor to a GPIO pin on the RPi and the other to a ground pin on the RPi. It is a good idea to put a 1kohm resistor in series with the sensor to protect the RPi from damage if anything is misconfigured.
1. Raspberry Pi initial setup
	1. Follow the guide at http://elinux.org/RPi_Easy_SD_Card_Setup to write the Raspbian image to the SD card.
	1. Boot the RPi and at raspi-config, expand the filesystem, set the "pi" account password, set the hostname, and enable SSH.
	1. Reboot the Raspberry Pi
1. Edit /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf and configure the RPi to connect to your wifi network.
1. Regenerate the ssh keys for security.
1. Update the packages with `sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade`, then install the dependencies:<br>
sudo apt-get install python-setuptools python-dev libffi-dev<br>
sudo easy_install pip<br>
sudo pip install requests<br>
sudo pip install requests[security]<br>
1. Optional email configuration
	1. Configure postfix to send mail using Google SMTP, or your ISP's SMTP server
1. Copy bin/pi_garage_alert.py to /usr/local/sbin
1. Copy etc/pi_garage_alert_config.py to /usr/local/etc. Edit this file and specify the garage doors you have and alerts you'd like.
1. Copy init.d/pi_garage_alert to /etc/init.d
1. Configure and start the service with<br>
sudo update-rc.d pi_garage_alert defaults<br>
sudo service pi_garage_alert start<br>
1. At this point, the Pi Garage Alert software should be running. You can view its log in /var/log/pi_garage_alert.log

Other Uses
---------------

The script will work with any sensor that can act like a switch. Some alternate uses include:

* Basement or washing machine leak sensors
* Window sensors

Commit message:

added trigger.py file to be copied

README.md, after:

Pi Garage Alert
===============

Docker container with a Raspberry Pi Python script to email or send an SMS (IFTTT) if a garage door is left open. It can also trigger the garage door to open/close.

QUICK START
---------------
BASIC RASPBERRY PI SETUP
1. Equipment required
  1. Raspberry Pi model A or B
	1. 2GB or larger SD card
	1. Magnetic sensor (e.g. https://www.amazon.com/uxcell-Stainless-Security-Magnetic-Contact/dp/B005DJLILI/ref=sr_1_10)
	1. USB wifi adapter (if not using Ethernet)
	1. USB power supply for RPi (https://www.amazon.com/Edimax-EW-7811Un-150Mbps-Raspberry-Supports/dp/B003MTTJOY/ref=sr_1_4)
	1. 2 channel relay (https://www.amazon.com/SunFounder-Channel-Optocoupler-Expansion-Raspberry/dp/B00E0NTPP4/ref=sr_1_1)
1. Raspberry Pi initial setup
	1. Follow the guide at http://elinux.org/RPi_Easy_SD_Card_Setup to write the Raspbian image to the SD card.
	1. Boot the RPi and at raspi-config, expand the filesystem, set the "pi" account password, and enable SSH.
	1. Reboot the Raspberry Pi
  1. Edit /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf and configure the RPi to connect to your wifi network.
  1. Run 'sudo apt update' and 'sudo apt upgrade'
  1. Run 'sudo apt install git'

PI_GARAGE_ALERT SETUP USING DOCKER
1. git clone https://github.com/jnk5y/pi_garage_alert.git
1. From the pi_garage_alert directory run 'docker build -t garage-listener .'
1. docker run --device /dev/ttyAMA0:/dev/ttyAMA0 --device /dev/mem:/dev/mem --privileged --name garage-container garage-listener



1. Update the packages with `sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade`, then install the dependencies:<br>
sudo apt-get install python-setuptools python-dev libffi-dev<br>
sudo easy_install pip<br>
sudo pip install requests<br>
sudo pip install requests[security]<br>
1. Optional email configuration
	1. Configure postfix to send mail using Google SMTP, or your ISP's SMTP server
1. Copy bin/pi_garage_alert.py to /usr/local/sbin
1. Copy etc/pi_garage_alert_config.py to /usr/local/etc. Edit this file and specify the garage doors you have and alerts you'd like.
1. Copy init.d/pi_garage_alert to /etc/init.d
1. Configure and start the service with<br>
sudo update-rc.d pi_garage_alert defaults<br>
sudo service pi_garage_alert start<br>
1. At this point, the Pi Garage Alert software should be running. You can view its log in /var/log/pi_garage_alert.log
